he says to his audience look the vast
majority of people end up mediocre they
end up trapped in a life of mediocrity
they don't like they don't want they
feel they didn't choose that's what
people end up trapped in you shouldn't
end up trapped in and unfortunate in
reality our societies that most people
live boring lives they go through the
motions work jobs they don't like dread
Monday's look forward to the weekend and
do nothing more than simply exist but
then what he goes on to describe is the
epitome of middle age mediocrity yeah
it's a shitty mediocre life of
resignation with a few comfortable
distractions provided by hobbies can you
even call them passions a bonus Yin now
if you're in high school or even college
it may sound like that life's really far
off and you won't end up like that but
the reality is most people do and you
need to make sure you avoid it at all
costs
[Music]
new yen we were just debating how real
we were gonna keep it in this in this
video I think on a scale of one to ten
we're maybe gonna keep it about a seven
I think we are not gonna keep it all the
way real in this video this is a touchy
subject man this is based pend versus
based Zeus everybody else is like
basedgod based sooo so I'm gonna be I'm
gonna be based upon in this debate on
the question of how do you find your
passion so we just want to make sure we
got the title of his video right and I
notice I notice looking at the thumbnail
here use these four steps to find your
passion right now he's got you've got a
hole on a rope he's got a blonde chick
in string bikini bottom's no top yeah
and I'm guessing it's maybe like a tire
swing you see what I mean it's a string
sorry
it's a swing with only a single string a
single string swing that's what that is
so we're guessing your passion has
something to do with right in that that
that big tire hanging from the string
warning this video is not gonna be
obvious [ __ ] advice like just do as
you love bro it's gonna be actual tips
you can start using right now to put you
closer to finding what you're passionate
about
oh I thought you'd say banging hose you
know uh I mean I think the most
fundamental and general problem I have
here is that it promises to tell you
about finding finding your passion and
most of the video is actually but what
to do once you've found it which is
really a very different thing and I'm
you know I'm not hating on that like
obviously you can you can talk about
both you can talk about about neither
but even if we just keep it on that on
that sexual level look you're with a
middle-aged Jewish intellectual without
with a big no you are pale what you want
the camera to light you want me to do
tinta just you already do hashtag no
filter the only one you want me to give
you a fake ass tan on the on the edit
do a color filter don't half the screen
or about have and then the shorter my
sure it'll be a different color but
that's okay
look when when you you know we're
looking at your life I don't think you
started off thinking like if you did
folders of ice you made a list of what
you were looking for you want to be with
the middle-aged Jewish intellectual with
the big nose who'd studied Cambodia and
First Nations like the things that
attracted you to me like physically
intellectual otherwise I don't think you
could have made a list of them that what
I even after you found out about me she
found me on the net perform a family
really do you have any idea how many
guys there are with like overweight
Hispanic women and if you ask them in
high school or in college what are you
looking for check they would have never
said I'm looking to get with an
overweight Hispanic woman why they met
an overweight Hispanic woman who had
some other redeeming qualities or
something else in common there was
something where they got on that
wavelength and they fell in love with an
overweight Hispanic woman you know was
that you I do it in its specifically in
this way it's about finding your passion
well you may not believe me she is
incredibly passionate about me this is
not this is a lot of romance of
convenience it's not like she just
shrugged their shoulders well I guess
I'll buy an airplane ticket to Hong
China on the border with me just move
him you know well settle for less you
know no I mean this this is your dream
relationship in a lot of ways people
don't have to believe that but you
didn't even know to dream at first right
so like already I mean this is this is
really the the deepest question the
deepest problem raised for the video
whether we talked about it sexually or
in terms of Korea or in terms of hobbies
or other passions or interests when I
was in high school even when I was in
college there's no way I could have
gotten out a pen and paper and wrote
down on a list I want to study Palli
what is pally you can search my channel
if you want that PA li poly is a
language I'd never heard of it in high
school for most of my first four years
of university I'd never heard of it or
something it was right at the end of my
time of university when a lot of ways it
was it was too late you know well what
had I heard of heard of ancient Greek
already too many white boys nation
just keep me real I thought everything
that needed to be done and already been
done in ancient Greek there wasn't it
wasn't like someone was gonna discover a
new book by Aristotle wasn't a new book
by Plato nobody had translated I wanted
to be on the frontiers of new knowledge
and I thought Owen pally I can do that
so same thing Cambodia God interests me
a Bodhi I've had a I've had a video here
on YouTube talking about first time ever
heard of Cambodia reading a comic book
when I was maybe 11 years old so I don't
know I know well that was I was a kid
reading a combo how would I have put
Cambodia on a list of things I'd be
passionate about Cambodian as a language
or the history or the politics or all
the anthropological interests the things
that how can you possibly put that on a
lizard I recommend starting by writing
down a list of at least 10 things should
think you might be interested in want to
try or things you've already done but
never made the time to actually pursue
fully now if you can't think of ten
things start with 5 where 3 or even 1 1
is greater than 0 is the mentality you
should be following here and this way at
least if you try one thing and you don't
like it then you've successfully crossed
off one potential passion and you're one
step closer to finding what you actually
like so this advice I think is really
fundamentally wrong they're really
putting the cart before the horse and
when he gives you his example that soul
is 10 things he gives I know he's half
joking but he gives a list
he says meat-based Zeus IRL [ __ ] a MILF
build a nice body
drag racing travel start a YouTube
channel [ __ ] Victoria Secret model
okay so why why would he be [ __ ] a
Victoria Secret model why would you be
passionate about that I think it's just
because it's the most readily available
information if you're growing up and
presumably this is pitched to a male
audience okay
like I think the Victoria Secret model
Kel I think it's given away for free
people get it in the mail and [ __ ] I
don't even think you buy I don't know I
don't even think you buy it right it's
advertising right so these are the most
some of the most widely available images
of women in the world you really think
that's your type really really maybe you
aren't going to know like if you're not
super sexually experienced in your 20s I
think a lot of guys won't know their
type maybe the
25 or 26 you don't know maybe what
you're into is is fat latina women I'm a
treat last time I was in San Francisco I
met some overweight latina women who are
attractive as hell like I'm really not
said like I've met gorgeous or with you
know but that's not what you see in
Victoria's Secret it's not what you see
in the magazines it's mmm you see it
once in a while on a rap video once
though - what kind of rap music you're
in you don't I mean but like that's and
that's not even like a small minority of
men who aren't over it's not at all you
know what I mean
so like you know this is this is a
really obvious really down-to-earth
example just about sex but in the okay
travel travel so where you gonna go
where you gonna go homie what do you
what do you it's gonna be the same [ __ ]
I know what mat-su Picchu what what have
you seen on the cover of Time Life
magazine like how would you even know
where to go this is about what you're
passionate about
how would you discover a place that's
really meaningful for you go you throw a
dart at the map you know so what you've
heard of the pyramids in Egypt is that
meaningful for you is it something being
meaningful in general what is what is
travel gonna mean to you anybody can buy
an airplane ticket homey
but to have a passion to have a
meaningful engaging with the place where
you learn and you grow and like the
other thing I set you right off the bat
looking at this so me my gross 24 I'm 39
nobody wears the pants in the
relationship it's good working out great
you know but let's say you're year 24 if
you made a list like this when you were
just you know 18 18 is not that long ago
for you I think today you'd look at that
list and laugh right I mean on the other
hand since she got with me like in terms
of travel which is a shallow thing you
come to China come to the edge of
Myanmar we've gone to Thailand you gone
to the South of France I can assure you
I never would have gone to those places
not you going back to Thailand a month
to you know you've done this stuff and
you have some kind of meaningful
engagement with it yeah you would have
never put that in a list when you were
18 years old it's meaningful to me right
sure in many ways not just me not just
because I met you're just you know like
sure after coming here and being here
it's this is probably the most
interesting thing I've ever done
- and you've got a connection and you're
learning and growing and changing his
person yeah at 18 making a list of 10
things no way no way you could have put
that on there right no and you know I
think I might have said you know travel
to Europe I mean I add you can list all
the continents if you keep it that big
Europe Africa Asia me maybe fit in
Antarctica in between you know like you
know but this is this is a little vague
but no I'd you
you both couldn't have put Thailand on a
list and you couldn't have put what was
meaningful about it and like some of the
things that are meaningful boat island
are negative like just going there and
thinking about poverty thinking about
politics and democracy and dictatorship
and yeah the hose on the curb man you're
that never you say that cuz I mean I
know at the time you were freaked out
but I was like look I want you to see
the reality like I don't want you I
don't want to just take you to the
[ __ ] zoo and see you know the animals
behind bars like you know I want you to
see some of the reality of what what
modern Thailand is and what you know
there's more than two sides to the coin
but this side of the coin Wow no no I
was just telling my sister-in-law about
it about going to Thailand and it kind
of changed my perspective on sex workers
and just generally sex tourism right
like you know you think about economics
and politics and history is gonna change
with the more kind of key studies you
can work with yeah and like in just
within the last couple of weeks we talk
about politics difficult we talk about
Iraq Iran we talk about various wars
we're talking about history of European
colonialism just different stuff comes
up but like even then knowing hey you
know what Thailand
they're actually an example of a country
that was never colonized by Europeans
you know what they were never conquered
by the British Empire the French a
pirate sir they're actually a little bit
different the way they answer identities
things and just knowing like oh yeah I
know what contrasting sailing most
countries are homophobic as hell
Thailand's a real contrast to that
they've never been held before they're
ridiculously accepting not just gays but
transsexuals and you see that in the
streets too
and even for us were pro gay rights but
it can be a bit shocking you know yeah
you see that coming out the coming out
the alleys actually coming out though
there was that what that barbershop what
the coming out the barbers have at you
know it can be a little unexpected a
little bit jarring but you realize whoa
I come from a country where actually we
don't think gays are in the closet but
compared to Thailand it's not it's not
noise in your face so you know just
having access to those cultural
contrasts what it's gonna mean for you
but we aren't even talking about
passions yet I mean like you know what
that's the other thing that [ __ ] me up
about this video right is okay
he opens he opens with a strong suit he
plays a strong card he says to his
audience look the vast majority of
people end up mediocre they end up
trapped in a life of mediocrity they
don't like they don't want they feel
they didn't choose that's what people
end up trapped in you shouldn't end up
trapped in but then what he goes on to
describe is the epitome of middle-age
mediocrity yeah it's a shitty mediocre
life of resignation with a few
comfortable distractions provided by
hobbies can you even call them passions
is that even really your passion bro
okay yeah you do boxing you meditate for
20 minutes can you really call look I
mean you know I remember hearing a radio
interview about a guy who was you know
passionate about lawnmowers and he did
have some kind of mental disability I'm
sorry I forget which one but you know
the guy was a little bit obsessive but
weird and he was so into lawnmowers he
could identify the manufacturer and the
year of manufacturer from the sound of
the lawnmower wrench you know they have
different types of homes and stuff
there's a YouTube channel from a guy you
know I never looked at it even again I
heard about it on Canadian radio he's
passionate about elevators you know and
he's devoted his life to literally he
flies around the world visiting dbora
guys over this [ __ ] exists
but look that was the most passionate
I've ever seen somebody about elevators
the mr. Rogers episode this [ __ ] exists
but we're giving advice to young men who
are trying to [ __ ] Victoria's Secret
models yeah that that's not gonna work
for you and it's not gonna work for the
the ho on a rope you're chasing over I
don't think so you know I don't think so
drag racing travel you know look I mean
you know different different different
tricks for different chicks no question
but I mean none of this there's no sense
of doing something for other people
there's no sense of doing something to
make the world a better place or just a
different place you know but even that's
like okay drag racing drag racing is
self-improvement like photography is
self-improvement even that his question
was pretty much that he said all
progresses yes I don't see that as being
true at all like you can progress in
something and realize it's not what you
actually want to do I think people do
spend time like an effort into a hobby
and then they realize a lot of time do
we nice and I'm just not into it anymore
oh the classic examples got to be men in
sports right yeah I mean that's a
fundamental but your point here this is
really shallow terrible advice even if
it's just for that reason that no not
all progress is good progress some
progress leaves you with terrible pangs
of regret shadow over break over you for
the rest of your life that's really
worth knowing and really worth thing
people you know but like all the dudes
like so I'm originally from southern
Ontario Canada all the dudes who did
little league hockey you know did lower
league hockey and a lot of those good
dudes got on drugs a lot of the gone a
lot of them got [ __ ] from girls in
small town Ontario where they played the
yeah yeah they're all there early sexual
experiences were because they were in
this minor league hockey [ __ ] going from
town to town and probably listening to a
lot of real
bad country music you know stuff yeah
vegan gains himself right he's got a
skull injury he's got a knee injury he's
seriously disabled for life Sir Richard
vegan gains you know we know each other
we're not close friends but still I'm
just saying this isn't like a complete
stranger you know but you know Richard
he's a guy I think he's left with really
seriously regrets including the impact
ice hockey had on his own relationship
with his father and his mom and his
impact on his education in those years
of his life but I mean sports is a huge
one we're like yeah yeah you can make
progress and then you look back on it I
met a guy who did that with tennis where
he went through the like League tennis
and it was so he talked me through just
how many hours per day was I met one guy
who did that with major league baseball
martial arts yeah at least at Lisa's
martial arts you can punch a wall or
something but most of the skills you
build up with tennis are [ __ ] useless
right when outside of a tennis arena do
you use tennis I mean you know like
martial arts has some app but sure no
it's it's true it's true with people who
devote a lot of time to martial arts but
yeah I met one guy he actually worked
with me at Starbucks so when I worked at
Starbucks this guy was in the he was in
the major league pitching things so he
went to pitching camp he never played on
a major league team but he lost years of
his life throwing a ball as fast as
possible as accurately as possible and
now he works with me at Starbucks you
know what I mean but nice nice to have
you on the team champ that's not even
that great of exercise for you like I
don't see people like dude you know
devoting their time to exercise fitness
because they want to improve their
health but you know playing God that
makes it so much deeper already because
when I was just talking with the sports
all I was talking about was pursuing a
passion making progress and then having
regret but actually when you bring the
question of self-improvement into it it
gets way deeper away or to deal with
right yeah but like okay I happen to
know someone I used to be married to who
got a PhD from Cambridge University and
regrets it and is miserable about it now
I think anyone would say oh gee getting
a PhD in Cambridge from Cambridge
University
that's Suffolk prob that's personal
progress
self-improvement it's not like just
learning you throw a baseball
hundreds of times don't be doing
baseball practice good its differential
for improving other people's lives I I
so I personally have known quite a few
different people who got a PhD and
deeply regretted it and wish they'd
never done it and saw all the negative
impacts in their life
now you know sorry I mean the but but
but that's deep even when there's
personal progress even when and even
when you get laid or you you know any
any of these things will get you laid
guys and you know [ __ ] any little
slip there but you know any of these
activities you know if you're excellent
at them you know if it's not video games
if it's about helping other people or
making the world a better place or
anything like do you see anything about
volunteering a soup kitchen like no no
no is it possible that that's your
passion like one and not something
positive for other people but none of
them are based on understanding either
right yeah well I I knew a story of a
guy this is a real historical story he
was Hungarian and he started off with
the idea that maybe the origin of the
Hungarian people the Hungarian languages
in Tibet a stupid idea
he walked from Hungary to Tibet and he
taught himself to baton and then that
wasn't enough he taught himself Sanskrit
he completely devoted his life to learn
it and you know the description of how
this guy lives he was a white guy from
Hungary and of course he learned English
also which was easy for him but it's not
easy you know he learned all these
languages he did all these scholarship
and you know he worked at a particular
library where one of the things he was
known for was he would he would he would
lock himself into the booth where he
studied he would take the key and he
would hand it through the bars the
window had bars to the librarian and
would say okay come back in 12 hours and
he would he would he would pee in a pot
you know so he had a debt yeah yeah
doing those long hours on Sanskrit in
Tibetan so there are guys mean this is
this is Buddhist studies but he was a
secular scholar he wasn't a Buddhist
monk he was just a really devoted
scholar there people were devoted to
understanding and you can ask is this
self-centered like I don't was he trying
to make the world a better place was it
about other people
was that like you know in some cases
being devoted to your own understanding
your own knowledge it is it is
self-centered I mean that has an extreme
extreme example I think in a lot of ways
it's not connected anything social or
political or making any kinda change for
anyone else but at least is devoted to
the pursuit of excellence you know that
pursuit of excellence in a field of
understanding a field of learning you
know I mean every field needs their
experts if he was gonna be an expert in
that field then just trying to think of
some positive for just other people that
would be studying you know he would be
an important person the fundamental
puzzle this video from basis is supposed
to address is finding your passion when
you don't know what it is the other
three of the four points are really easy
once you know what your passion is what
do you do about it I don't think it's
advice is that great but whatever that's
really easy and that's really a separate
like you know if you know you want to
learn Sanskrit maybe you go to the
library and you lock yourself in the
[ __ ] cell and you pee in a bucket
maybe that's like you know how far you
want to take it what what methods you
want to use to teach yourself Sanskrit
that's that's a another question but how
would you even know like so this kid
grew up in Hungary
he was so ignorant he thought Hungarian
people originated in Tibet and he
decided to walk there you know true
story
you know how but you know how do you get
to that stage it cannot possibly be by
making a list of ten things you want to
do and I've seen before if you had a
list of things you made when you were 18
you would look back at now at it now and
laugh if I had a list of the things I
was actually a pretty profound and
morose 18 year old so 18 is too late I'd
have to be like 16 or something yeah
well would have been to middlin list at
16 because that 18 I was already like
there is no list I'd rebel against the
question at 18 a B I'd be to Moroso and
dejected already just say like can't be
self-destructive like yeah and in the
more time you devote to them they can be
totally self-destructive and you can be
blood
you can be snow blind how destructive
they are and how you're wasting your
life and losing your potential but even
when they're not destructive you can
regret them yeah you can be you can be
left with a lifetime of regret yeah no
look look we all grew a lot we all
changed a lot in terms of horizon
between age 18 and age 28
she ain't made 28 yet but you know I'd
like to think that even today at age 39
it hurt me if I made a list of these
things that I would look back on that
and laugh 10 years later 20 years later
you know if I look back on that at 59 I
think wow you know so that's who I was
then you know and this this is
fundamentally the wrong answer to this
question I feel okay this video is long
enough already I think I could make like
3 more videos on this question though
but really the advice about how to find
your passion dude you have to start with
a really profound acknowledgement that
you don't know you don't even know what
kind of women are your type yet you
don't even know what your passion is in
that case you may think it's this chick
you see in the thumbnail with a basis
video the hole on a rope because that's
the most accessible beauty standard you
you may think that's what you want and
you may make terrible sacrifices to get
it and you know I mean the intangible
things are always more important you
know having really having something in
common with you know the person you love
I mean you could love someone you got
nothing in common with this story in the
world you can love someone and have
great sex and you got when you turn over
in the morning there ain't a goddamn
word you have to say to them you know
what I mean that's it's so that's a slow
burn tragedy man you right can ride that
out and it's like how many years of your
life you're gonna waste for you break up
with this person I mean this is the
whole range you know but sure you can be
in a relationship someone who's
conventionally attractive and you can't
stand the sound of their voice you know
you can't stand the fact that they voted
for Donald Trump
you know whatever you know I mean this
there's so much more to this e but even
on that shallowest level you know you're
gonna find yourself attracted to people
you
ever thought you you you'd be attracted
to and you're gonna find yourself
falling in love with people you never
thought you'd fall in love with and
you're gonna find your passions whether
it's in terms of research or career or
humanitarian work or your interest or
even within a [ __ ] category like
travel it's gonna be things and topics
you could not have possibly heard of yet
a bonus Yin